ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
If the Emperor lacks virtue…
let him abdicate, then.
Yigui,
mind your words.
What was said today,
neither I
nor any of my ministers
has heard a thing.
Come. Let's drink
and enjoy
this moment together.
UPHOLD VIRTUE, GRANT MERCY
CHERISH THE WORTHY, HONOR THE DIFFERENT
Back then, only a handful of us
heard that remark about abdication.
Could someone have betrayed us?
HEAR ALL SIDES
I was not the fool.
The late Emperor
was tyrannical and corrupt.
The people suffered under his rule.
And he feared the Crown Prince
was too popular.
So he deliberately elevated the Jia clan
and the Sixteenth Prince.
If, back then,
the Xie, Wei, and Qi families
had joined forces
and placed Crown Prince Chengde
upon the throne,
would the court have been clean
and the people at peace?
But the Crown Prince
was too indecisive.
He lost the chance.
The Crown Prince and Linshan
both died in battle.
And you, Grand Tutor,
spent your days in gloom,
cast aside and ignored.
Tell me, would I really betray myself?
The Crown Prince once said
that Li Xing, though born
of an upright scholarly line,
was obsessed with power.
-Could it be…
-Exactly.
The moment Crown Prince
set out for Jinzhou,
his fate was sealed.
It was a dead end from the start.
The Crown Prince is foolish,
led astray by flatterers.
He even dared dream of taking my throne.
What say you, my ministers?
Your Majesty is wise
and will judge rightly.
PRINCE CHANGXIN SUI TUO
I serve in the far northwest
and know little of the court's affairs.
I dare not speak rashly.
For the sake of the realm,
I
must do what pains me most.
Nephew, will you lend your strength?
You are the son of my imperial sister,
with half the blood
of the imperial family in you.
Your Majesty means…
I would share the realm with you
and bind our houses in lasting alliance.
The late emperor gave Prince Changxin
a hollow promise
and made him refuse to send troops.
To rid himself of his own son,
he even invited wolves into the house.
Truly a ruler without virtue.
The late emperor
forged letters in Rongyin's hand
to summon me back to the capital…
QINGYUAN PALACE
…while I was on my way
to send reinforcements.
Yan,
while the fire spreads,
you must leave now.
No. We leave together.
Lord Wei, you…
If I had not cut my losses and escaped,
I would have been branded a traitor
who defiled the palace.
The Wei clan
would have been exterminated
to the ninth generation.
Get out!
Yan,
you go first.
Rongyin!
Do not worry. I will handle things here.
The Xie, Qi, and Wei families
served Dayin for three generations.
We fought until our flesh
and blood were spent.
Yet that dog of an emperor
toyed with us like pieces on a board!
As for what came after,
Grand Tutor, you know it well enough.
It was I who bathed the palace in blood.
Had I not launched a coup,
tell me, how could I have survived?
After Rongyin died,
I seized that dog emperor by the throat
and forced him to write
the edict of abdication.
Only by taking control of the court myself
could Dayin remain stable
and the realm endure.
The disgrace laid upon Wei Qilin
was also something
I had no choice but to do.
The late emperor's scheme
was far too thorough.
Before returning to the capital,
I entrusted the tiger tally
to the man I trusted most, Wei Qilin,
and ordered him
to seek reinforcements in my place.
Your Highness, the tiger tally is genuine.
Please send the troops at once.
This tally is fake.
It does not match.
Everything had already been arranged
by the late Emperor.
Later, misled by Qi Min,
Zheng reopened the Jinzhou case
from 17 years ago
and discovered that Wei Qilin's family
was still alive.
Silencing them
was the only way to preserve the bond
between uncle and nephew.
Who would have thought
that fate would intervene.
Zheng was saved by Fan Changyu.
Heaven's will cannot be escaped.
Truly…
when emperors play their games,
loyal ministers die unjustly.
So, in the end,
I have still lost.
Shall we go in?
Let's leave.
Fortunately,
Xie Zheng, who is the blade himself,
finally found its sheath.
Fan Changyu.
Let me borrow Changyu's words.
In this life, be a good pig.
In the next life,
be a good man.
A man like me…
will surely fall into the depths of hell.
There will be no next life
for someone like me.
Little wooden horse,
clip-clopping along.
A young boy, brave and proud.
Sword in hand, singing battle songs,
driving all the enemies away.
Time for morning court.
Morning court.
My ministers,
who has a matter to present before me?
Chancellor Wei, why are you kneeling?
Am I really that frightening?
Never mind.
If there's nothing further,
court is dismissed.
In the end, this realm
can only depend on me.
Depend on me. Depend on me.
Brother.
Look what I brought you.
All your favorite things.
Candied plums
and your beloved osmanthus pastries.
Come. Have a bite.
Delicious. Delicious!
Slow down. You will choke.
Delicious.
Brother.
Do you still recognize
who I am?
Wha… What?
Brother.
What did you say?
I am wise. Yes.
I thought you would not come.
Someone had to see you off.
You may break your promises.
I do not.
I must say,
you even made soup for me.
Very kind of you.
Even a condemned prisoner
is given a last meal
before execution, doesn't he?
Feed me.
Do not waste your effort.
What is it?
You pity me?
The flavor is good,
though it has gone cold.
Do you know
when I truly fell for you?
I do.
But if I could do it again…
I'd never have pulled you
out of that water.
You were the only one who saw my face
and did not recoil in fear.
Your reward.
And in you,
I saw something I had long yearned for.
Freedom.
You once had that too.
It was right in front of you.
But you hid it behind your mask.
Thank you for keeping your word.
You hate me so much…
yet you still gave me what I asked for.
Yu Qianqian.
I truly liked you.
That is why,
if there is another life,
I hope
we never meet again.
Is there more?
Do not let it go to waste.
At the very end…
You once told me
that if you died,
you could return home.
I want to know
who you truly are.
A wandering ghost?
A fallen immortal?
Tell me.
Let me die knowing the truth.
I am just myself.
I am Yu Qianqian.
You…
You liar.
Are you alright?
Changyu,
I have a secret.
I came from a place very, very far away.
I might never be able to return.
If it is that far away,
then do not go back.
Come back to Lin'an.
We will live there in peace.
Come on.
DAYIN
In the 18th year of Yongping,
Yu Bao'er's name was formally registered
in the imperial genealogy.
His mother, Empress Dowager Yu,
renamed him Qi Yu.
That spring, the new emperor ascended
the throne and began the Yongxing era.
His birth mother, Lady Yu,
was honored as Empress Dowager Mingde
and granted authority
to rule from behind the curtain.
The late Huaihua Commandant Wei Qilin
was posthumously granted the title
Count Zhongyong.
The late General Meng Shuyuan
was posthumously named Marquis Wusu.
Marquis Wu'an, Xie Zheng,
was appointed Prince Regent
to oversee affairs of state.
Fan Changyu was elevated
to General Huaihua
and granted the rank
First Rank Lady Protector of the Realm.
Together, they help govern the court.
The new emperor took the throne
at a young age.
With the Three Excellencies sharing power,
both court and people looked forward
to peace across the land.
Long live the Emperor!
Long live the Emperor forever!
GUARD YOUR THOUGHTS
Do not forget what you promised me.
Your mother is not here.
Hurry and eat some more.
Do not worry, Changning.
When I hold power one day,
I will not go against the Prince Regent
or General Huaihua.
Only weak emperors grow suspicious
of loyal ministers.
When you finally take power,
could you make me a princess too?
You want to be a princess?
Like the physician lady.
She looks so impressive.
When I get married,
my husband must offer his family's
entire fortune as a bride price.
The whole realm belongs to me.
No one has more wealth than I do.
Would you like to be my empress?
You are giving me
the imperial palace as my bride price?
Not just the palace. The entire realm.
The entire realm?
What does that mean?
It means…
from the battlefield,
where your sister fights,
to this palace,
and even farther south,
all of it belongs to me.
If you become my empress,
then it will all belong to you.
That big?
Even my falcon would need
days of flying to reach it.
You cannot go back on your word.
Let's make a promise.
-Pinky swear.
-A hundred years, never to change.
-Only puppies break the promise.
Qi Yu, how many times today
have you had sweets sent in?
You will ruin your teeth!
Come here!
Come here right now!
You are getting more disobedient
by the day.
-Pretty Lady, do not hit him!
-Mother!
Changning, be good.
-Do you know how many cavities
-Pretty lady…
-you already have?
-Please!
-And you still run?
-Pretty lady…
Come here!
Do not run.
Get over here.
You skip your writing practice…
HUMBLE YOURSELF AND STAY ON GUARD
…yet you still sneak sweets. Come here.
LI RESIDENCE
Careful with that.
Oh no, that…
The estate's confiscated. Watch yourself.
Stand over there.
Grandfather,
wars with Northern Jue
have drained Dayin's treasury.
Our family has donated everything we own.
Let it serve as atonement for our crimes.
His Majesty and the Prince Regent
keep their word.
They will not pursue past offenses.
Please set your mind at ease
and retire to a peaceful life.
Peaceful retirement?
Call it what it is.
Confiscation and exile.
The crimes of our family
were unforgivable.
This is already the best outcome.
If they had shown no mercy,
the entire Li clan
would have been wiped out.
I played the villain for nothing.
Seventeen years ago,
I became the villain for nothing.
Wenkan,
have you truly
asked to be exiled to the frontier,
to suffer in that frozen wasteland?
Perhaps
this is the best ending
fate could have arranged.
LIN'AN
Changyu is back!
-Changyu!
-You are back!
Changyu is back!
NOODLE SOUP
Changyu, you are back!
Mrs. Fan!
Changyu!
Greetings, General Huaihua.
-Please.
-General Huaihua!
-Changyu!
-Changyu is back!
You are back!
LUO'S PAWNSHOP
Mrs. Fan is back!
SUN’S BAMBOO WORKS
Changyu!
You are back!
-General Huaihua!
-Mrs. Fan!
Changyu!
You are back!
Changyu is back!
You have waited long
for this moment, haven't you?
SPIRIT TABLET OF MENG LIHUA
SPIRIT TABLET OF WEI QILIN
All I ask
is that they come home soon.
Milady, that is enough.
They are blessed with good fortune.
They will be fine.
You men would never understand.
You do not know how a mother feels
when a piece of her heart is torn away.
Do we look that important?
You think we could just go around
being the parents of General Huaihua?
What nonsense are you thinking?
Mr. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
Zhao.
Zhao, listen!
We are back!
Is that Ning's voice?
-Miss them so much, you're hearing things?
-Mr. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
-Listen.
-Listen to what?
Mr. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
It is true.
They really came back.
Is anyone…
Mr. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
Changyu.
Changyu!
You are really back!
Mr. Zhao.
Mrs. Zhao.
You are tanned.
And thinner too. You poor child.
It is good you are back.
Mother.
Father.
I came back safe and sound.
I will serve you both as your daughter.
We will never be separated again.
I will take care of you too.
Changyu. What did you just call us?
On her way home,
she kept thinking of changing
how she addresses you.
She hopes you will allow it.
-Good.
-How could we deserve such a blessing?
As long as you are staying,
that is all that matters.
No matter how grand the officials
or how wide
the world outside,
nothing compares to home.
Nothing compares to having
your parents beside you.
No more parting, children.
We will never be separated again.
Mr. Zhao! Mrs. Zhao!
We are back!
Mr. Zhao, Mrs. Zhao,
we all made it back safe.
We will take care of you together.
Jin Yuanbao.
You have grown up.
Come, come, get up.
Man Cang.
You are still as sturdy as ever.
-Man Wu.
-Mrs. Zhao.
Where is Man Di?
One is still missing.
Mother.
Man Di
did not make it back.
How could one be missing?
Good children.
You are home now.
You are home.
Come. Come inside.
-Quick, come inside.
-Come in!
Come. You are home now, Changning.
We are home!
SPIRIT TABLET OF ZISU, A DEAR FRIEND
SPIRIT TABLET OF FULING, A DEAR FRIEND
SPIRIT TABLET OF LAN SHUHUI, A DEAR FRIEND
SALVATION FOR ALL
Mother!
-Mother!
-Your Majesty,
you should address her as Mother Empress.
Mother Empress, come here.
What is it?
Mother Empress, I want to issue a decree.
I want to make Changning my empress.
Then you should ask
whether Changning is willing first.
Last time Changning asked me
to make her a princess.
I did not want to,
so I made her empress instead.
Changning already agreed.
We even pinky swore.
That still will not do.
Why not?
Because you are both still children.
You cannot marry yet.
Wait until you turn 20.
Then you can ask Changning again.
All right.
It is snowing!
At the third quarter of noon…
Wei Yan will be executed now.
Yigui,
this wine was prepared by Jiuheng himself.
It will spare you…
from the torture
of death by a thousand cuts.
Another year of falling snow.
Did you anger your uncle again?
Uncle is so strict when he teaches.
And he has no patience.
He is always scolding me.
Uncle!
I won!
So you finally came.
It is getting late.
You should head home.
Wei Yan, once Grand Chancellor.
Though he rendered great service
as regent, his crimes cannot be excused.
First, the Jinzhou disaster
claimed 100,000 soldiers.
Then the frontier burned
with relentless war.
Treason, betrayal, deceit, kinslaying,
and the ruin of order.
Making mortals the fuel for his flame,
though raising
the banner of peace for all,
is still a crime beyond forgiveness.
Sentenced to death. Property confiscated.
Let posterity judge his life.
In this life, be a good pig.
In the next life,
be a good man.
A man like me…
will surely fall into the depths of hell.
There will be no next life
for someone like me.
TWO MONTHS LATER
XIGU ALLEY
Excuse me. Let me pass.
Did you know?
Ever since we came back to Xigu Alley,
this tree somehow became
a matchmaking tree.
People say the fate between
General Huaihua and the Prince Regent
began right here under this tree.
How did the story turn into that?
You dragged me home
from the snowy ferry crossing.
Anyway, people say
this tree is very powerful.
If you toss a red ribbon into the branches
and two ribbons tangle together,
then that person is your destined one.
You really believe that?
It is true.
A lot of people made wishes here
and later met the one meant for them.
Did we really have to sneak out
in the middle of the night
like thieves just to come here?
If people saw the two of us
coming here to pray in person,
they would laugh us to death.
You go.
Afraid?
I'm the head of the house.
My ribbon should be catching yours.
All right.
Let's do it.
It has to catch.
-That doesn't count.
-What are you doing?
I am trying again.
I need to pull it down and throw it again.
Ours are not tangling.
It is fine. They already tangled.
Where?
-I can't even tell whose ribbon that is.
-Trust me.
In this life,
the next life,
and every life after,
we are tied together.
Still, I want to take it down.
Come on. Let's go.
-Put me down!
-No.
Did you hear me?
I did not.
I have to get back!
CHANGYU AND ZHENG,
TOGETHER FOREVER AND EVER
XIE
FIVE YEARS LATER, JINZHOU MILITARY CAMP
I haven't been
to a military camp in years.
The memories come flooding back.
They do.
Form ranks!
-Form ranks!
Move it!
Prince Regent. General Huaihua.
Northern Jue forces invaded.
Blood-clad Cavalry is assembling.
Changyu, I'll have someone
escort you back to Lin'an.
What are you talking about?
I am going with you.
Do not be absurd.
When did you last see battle?
Do not underestimate me.
I did not earn the title
of General Huaihua by sitting around.
-Someone!
-Yes!
-Bring me my armor.
General Xie,
if things turn dangerous, hide behind me.
You are a mother of two.
Time to stop making jokes.
Then be careful.
Come back safe.
THE END
END CREDIT SCENE
IF THE JINZHOU TRAGEDY
17 YEARS AGO HAD NEVER HAPPENED
Zheng is really devoted
to practicing his sword.
A few days ago,
his father pointed out
that his sword forms
were not solid enough.
So lately,
aside from eating, sleeping, and studying,
he spends all his spare time
right here practicing.
Ever since he was little,
he has been stubborn like this.
He does not resemble me at all.
Nor his father.
He takes after his uncle.
They say nephews are like their uncles.
That saying exists for a reason.
The little one in my belly though
is quite lazy.
Already full term
and she barely moves.
I am thinking
she will be a quiet girl.
But whenever her father teases her,
she suddenly kicks so hard,
she nearly scares him to death.
He spent the whole night awake
worrying to me,
"What if it turns out to be a boy?"
What is wrong with that?
General Wei likes daughters that much?
He was positively smug about it.
He told me, "If it is a girl,
we will name her Changyu."
And if it is a boy?
He said boys are tough.
We would just call him Rocky
or Buster for now.
When he grows older,
his grandfather can give him
a proper name.
I have heard
there is an old folk trick.
Let a child guess whether the baby
in a pregnant woman's belly
is a boy or a girl.
-Shall we try it?
-Why not?
Zheng.
Come here to me.
Let me ask you something.
What do you think
is inside Aunt Meng's belly?
A little boy or a little girl?
A little girl.
If it is a little girl,
then you must marry her
and bring her home as my daughter-in-law.
Why would she become your daughter-in-law?
Because I like her.
All right.
"If it is a girl,
we will name her Changyu."
CHANGYU
WHERE CLOUDS MEET VERDURE
Greetings, Madam.
Thanks for coming.
How is she? Has she delivered?
Yes. Mother and daughter are both safe.
I was sent to deliver the good news.
Thank you, Nanny.
Please come inside.
It was kind of her to send word.
I've prepared a small gift
to show my regards.
Thank you.
How is she doing?
She is doing well.
Please help pass along a message.
In a few days, I will come visit her.
Very well.
Madam, please stay.
Thank you for your trouble.
Mother, did Aunt Meng give birth?
She did.
What is it?
Zheng, are you already
thinking about your little bride?
CHANGYU'S BIRTHDAY, FIFTH YEAR OF QINGHE
17TH DAY, 1ST MONTH
CHANGYU'S BIRTHDAY
17TH DAY, 1ST MONTH, 5TH YEAR OF QINGHE
SIXTEEN YEARS LATER
Over the past five years,
Father has worn down
the Northern Jue forces
until their treasury is nearly empty.
And now those old men at court
are calling for a ceasefire.
Is that not the same
as handing the Northern Jue army
a chance to recover
and strike again later?
I came to the capital in Father's place
to persuade His Majesty
to continue
and march for their stronghold.
We could wipe them out.
Do you really think
those old ministers are the ones
calling for the ceasefire?
Your father's campaigns these past years
have been steady and measured.
His aim has always been
to grind down Northern Jue's strength
until they collapse entirely.
But His Majesty does not see it that way.
But my father has always been
absolutely loyal to His Majesty.
Twenty years ago, His Majesty
was much like
the present Crown Prince Qi Min.
Virtuous and upright.
Yet over the years, his attitude
toward the Eastern Palace has changed.
He fears history repeating itself.
He guards against it,
even with his own son.
So imagine how he must regard
a lord stationed in the northwest,
commanding a hundred thousand troops,
and not even of the imperial clan.
How could he possibly
leave such a man unchecked?
Enough.
Set aside the matter
of attacking Northern Jue for now.
If you bring this up again
before His Majesty,
His Majesty will still find excuses
to brush it aside,
talking about floods in the south
and other affairs of state.
Thank you for the advice.
No need for that.
Oh, by the way,
your aunt prepared some dishes.
Let's go eat.
You are finally
old enough to share a few drinks with me.
These days, even Father
and General Wei cannot outdrink me.
Tonight I will see whether you can
hold your wine better than I can.
So the fledgling has grown his wings.
Very well.
Let's settle it at the wine table.
Please.
BY IMPERIAL GRACE
YIXIANG RESTAURANT
Guests, please come inside.
Very well.
This way, please.
Please.
-Careful.
-Strange.
Lin'an felt oddly familiar.
You two must also be guests
from the capital.
Please come upstairs.
The other guests are waiting for you.
Ms. Yu,
you look familiar.
Have we met somewhere before?
Funny you should say that.
Now that you mention it,
I feel the same.
Perhaps in a past life,
we were good friends.
Come. Let me treat you to our specialties.
Let's go.
You must all be tired from the journey.
Allow me to offer a toast.
-Come.
-Come, come.
To your hard work.
Bottoms up.
Thank you all for waiting.
This is our restaurant's signature dish,
snow frog soup.
Honored guests, please enjoy.
-Smells decent enough.
-Snow frog soup?
It smells wonderful.
Sir, would you like to try some?
Sir, are you feeling unwell?
I will go change.
Please enjoy yourselves.
Sir, are you truly all right?
It is nothing.
Please go about your work, Ms. Yu.
The soup tastes great, and you throw up.
I am this pretty, and you still throw up.
What on earth is wrong with you?
Are you all right?
Your Highness values talent and courtesy.
Why such an aversion
to a mere innkeeper today?
I tried the soup just now.
There was nothing unusual about it.
I do not know why either.
Perhaps she was an enemy of mine
in a past life.
When I see her,
my heart is strangely pleased,
yet I cannot go near.
The moment I do, I feel sick.
That's why they say
fate brings people together,
but destiny keeps them apart.
NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang